So now that we've finalized our widget. Let's take a look at how it will look like in Customizer.
I just want to point out a couple of notes there.
So remember we have to use the 8888 port here.
So let's Add Widget and search for our widget, "recent" and this one.
And as you can see the whole iframe refreshes, right?.
But if you had any other widget it won't refresh the whole iframe, it will just add the widget.
So what's wrong with our widget?
Why is it refreshing the whole iframe.
It's just simply because you have to add a, in this array we have to add another key.
And this is called "customize_selective_fresh" and set it to "true".
So let's refresh.
And let's go to Widgets and the Primary. And let's add our widget. And now as you can see it's added without
refreshing the whole iframe.
So that's the first thing.
Let's just delete some of these.
And let's assume in our widget we want the posts to be in a slider.
We want some JavaScript in our widget.
So let's go to the frontend, the widget() function and let's give this container some class.
Let's call it  "most_recent_widget" just to initialize a Slick Slider on it.
So let's go to our JavaScript.
Remember in the src and assets, let's go to bundle.
And let's select the widget and put it in slider. Initialize
Slick Slider on it. And make sure you have your NPM running. Let's now refresh the normal website not the
Customizer.
As you can see we have a slider here.
That's refresh the Customizer and we have our slider.
But let's now try to edit this widget and let's update any value here.
And as you can see the slider is gone. And the reason is we apply the Slick Slider once the document is
ready.
So we apply the Slick Slider to any DIV that has this class
when the document is ready.
Right?
But when we change something here,
WordPress will replace this whole widget with a new DIV,
right?
And this new DIV will not have the Slick Slider applied.
So what can we do in order to run some JavaScript function
when we update something in our widget? WordPress actually provides some callbacks to do that.
So let's go back to the bundle and let's type "wp.customize.selectiveRefresh.bind()" and we'll
bind to an event called "partial_content_rendered".
So this event will run whenever some partial in your Customizer renders, right?
Remember partials and selective refresh and that stuff.
So any time when your partial is loaded in your Customizer this event will run.
Right?
So the second argument
it takes is a function. And it receives an argument called "placement".
So let's "console.log(placement)" and let's see what we will have,
right?
So let's open the console and we have an error here.
Maybe we have some typo, yeah "selective".
So let's refresh again.
And let's change something.
And as you can see we have something here.
So this is the placement variable that we are logging. And it has a lot of information. And the information
we need is the "partial" and also the "container". So this event will run for any partial,
right?
So let's say we change something here in the navigation menu.
This partial will run. But we need to make sure that we run some code only for our widget.
Right?
So how do we check that? Let's open the "partial" and "widgetIdParts" and "idBase". And this will be the ID
of our widget.
So apparently we have a typo in the here, in the name of the widget here. But let's just keep it like so for now.
So let's open the other one, for the navigation menu, and the "partial".
And it won't even have a key called "widgetIdParts". So what we'll have to do in our $ script is we will have to
check inside of the "partials", if we have a key called "widgetIdParts" and this "widgetIdParts" has an "idBase"
of our widget name,
we will run some code. So let's write some if conditions. So
"if (placement.partial.widgetIdParts".
So if we have this key
and this key ".idBase"
is equals to our widget ID which is this,
we'll have to run some code, right?
So let's make sure this if condition is working. So let's save and refresh. And lets
change something here.
And we have our text. Lets try to change something in the navigation menu or any thing that has partials
here.
And we don't see this text, right?
We only see the other console log.
So lets remove it.
So now we are able to run code only when our widget is loaded.
What do we need to run?
We need to initialize "slick" for the content of the widget that has just loaded.
Right?
So how do we get that? Inside of the placement
we will find "container" and the container as you can see is actually
highlighting our widget, right? So all we have to do is
"placement.container", so the container will be this whole DIV, the SECTION tag remember?
So this is the SECTION tag and we would like to find inside of SECTION tag this class, right?
So let's copy this.
And ".find"
then ".slick()".
Let's try this.
And as you can see we still have the slider. Great.
One final thing we can do is before using this object, we can make sure that it exists because for some older
WordPress versions maybe this does not exist.
So its always a good idea to check first that the things that you are trying to access exists,
right?
So first we'll check "wp.customize" and then the "wp.customize.selectiveRefresh". And if these exist
then it's safe to use them in the code below.
So there are also other callbacks for widgets and partials and stuff like that.
I'll put a link to it, so you can read more about it.
But I think for us that's all what we need to do to create widgets. So that it for now and see you
in the next section.